Update: Mar 13, 2015 9:27PM

Group Name:	PIXELIZED

Group Members:	Francis Banzuela		Arts
		Michael Jhun Angelo Bea		Project Manager (Paper Works) and Designs
		Junell Marcayda			Designs and Programming

Name of Game: BoKCG

Genre: Casino/Card Game

Platform: Desktop

Language: GML

Tools: Game Maker Studio

Game Purpose and Objectives: Entertainment, Past time

Details: A card game that uses the standard cards or casino cards which consists of 4 suits with 13 rank of cards each. This is played with 2 to 4 players and each player should only have 1 suit of cards. There are 3 kinds of cards in the game namely Assassin (A), Ranked Soldiers (2-10), and Royalties (J,Q,K). To start the game all players must have all 13 cards in their hands. Every turn all players must put down a card face down within 3 seconds, if a player did not put down a card within that time he/she can't play a card on the next turn and he must throw 2 cards to the graveyard. After the timer ends all cards that are put down are flipped for the FACE OFF, an Assassin can be destroyed by Ranked Soldiers, Ranked Soldiers can be destroyed by Royalties, and Royalties can be destroyed by Assassins, Ranked Soldiers can also be destroyed by another Ranked Soldier if it has a higher ranking same as for the royalties where the King is the strongest and Jack is the weakest. If two cards of the same rank are present they are both destroyed. If 3 kinds of cards are present, Assassins attacks first next the Royalties then the Ranked Soldiers. A player is out of the game if he/she has no cards left. If there are 2 players left, and if player A have the highest ranking card and player B have no equal nor higher ranking than player A have then player A is the winner of the game, unless player A's card is a Royalty and player B still have an Assassin.

Summary of what we did: We started designing games on paper and choose what is the easiest. We have two designs a Clash of Clans-like strategy game and a card game and we choose the latter. The description about the card game is indicated above. We tried Python, PyGames, first because we heard that programming in Python was easy. It took us days to download the needed files due to connectivity issues. It’s hard to set up the environment for us beginners and because of the time and frustration we decided to download android studio and other android game development apps and tools. We tried Android Studio first but Junell’s PC can’t handle the RAM hog Android Studio so he decided to use Eclipse, downloaded it and also downloaded and installed Android and Java SDK just to be sure. We then first created a hello world app in Eclipse and then compiled it to try or test it on our phones. It worked at the emulator of the Eclipse so it should work on our phones. First Junell tried it on his My Phone RIO which is a Jelly Bean, Android 4.2, smart phone but it didn’t work. He then tried to fix it of what was the problem. He contacted Bea to search for tutorials about it. It took a month to fix it but it’s not the build that has the problem but the phone. We found this out when we tried it on Francis’ phone which installed the app and executed it without any problems. Francis’ phone is a KitKat Android phone which is a latter version than JellyBean. Francis is the one who created the Patapon liked card design and Junell is the one who made the mini card design. Bea is the one do the paper works, research and also helped out designing in the game. What we have done now is a sample screen or gameplay if the player choose the heart. There is no AI so we can’t say it's playable.

What we have learned: From the beginning we should have planned well the work flow and know our strengths and weaknesses. We have large time but we wasted it we should stayed on one tool or language and focused on learning about them. Now we know what to do during our thesis works.
